Posted as a response to an e-mail thread titled: "should we use brain scans to detect racial bias in politicians."

----

"I'm racist, I'm sexist, I'm homophobic, and so are you."

The chairman had a way of making the air feel heavy when he spoke. It made one suddenly aware of their own breathing.

"But with education and vigilance we can, we will, find redemption for the sins of white supremacy. Patriarchy. And inequality!"

The audience stood, roaring in jubilation.

History had taught our ancestors to be wary of men with grand visions who inspired such obedient passion. But our ancestors could only judge a man's character by his actions. Whereas we have connectomics. The ability to peer into a person's soul.

And our chairman's connectome, his soul, revealed that he was among one of only five percent of the population blessed enough to be free from the smothering grip of prejudice. A veritable saint.

Or so we'd thought. 

But no matter how I tried, I couldn't un-know what I knew. And I was damned for it.

"I've called you here today, because while loyal party members struggle for justice there are reactionaries among us. Irredeemable wreckers who have defected from history's progressive arc."

The auditorium fell silent.

"One of these crypto-fascists saw the light of intersectionality and came to me to beg for forgiveness. But forgiveness is not mine to give! I am among the privileged! And I use my privilege to serve you! So you will be his judges."

"But before justice is served, he will share a list of his former co-conspirators who sit here in this very room."

The chairman beckoned and a gaunt figure slunk onto the stage. I recognized the traitor immediately. An up and coming party leader. Now a hollow shell.

"God forgive me."

He read the first name.

"Margaret Phelps"

Security moved to where she sat and led her away while she sobbed uncontrollably.

The heavy air took on an acid quality. It burned. My eyes, my stomach, my heart.

A wide eyed gentleman in the middle of the room stood up and shouted, pumping his fist. "Praise our leader! Long live liberty, brotherhood, and equality!"

The reading continued until around half of the seats were empty.

I served on the committee that reviewed connectomes. They would never let me go. Even without knowing that I knew what I knew. 

Did they save me for last as a cruel joke?

And what did I know?

That a man who loves his own children more than other people's children is more prejudiced than a man who loves no one but himself.

That the opposite of love is not hate. It's indifference.

And in our haste to eliminate racism we didn't think to screen for anti-social personality disorder.
